Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni.
Greetings to all esteemed Dharma friends. Dear Dharma friends,
we often hear about climbing Mount Bodhi
for two reasons: firstly, to venerate and pay homage to the
Bodhi tree;
secondly, to
practice mindfulness. Previously, many
Buddhists were unfamiliar with the term "
mindfulness meditation," but now, after
learning a little over the past year,
we will gradually become acquainted with it.
Mindfulness meditation is observing and monitoring the
actions of the body and mind—
that is, the
movement. When we climb the mountain like this,
we will be mindful and aware,
observing the actions of the body and
mind. We will take mindful steps—mindful steps, aware
steps.
What is called awareness? What is called
delusion? Awareness is clear knowing, enlightenment is goodness,
liberation. Clearly knowing our own body and
each action.
In the operation of
enlightenment and liberation of the mind, it is the same. For example,
today we climb the mountain to
venerate and pay homage to the Bodhi tree. Why do we venerate and
pay homage?  The Bodhi Tree ceremony is because the Bodhi Tree
is a symbol of the
Buddha. Our Buddha has three
symbols remaining in the world that, if anyone pays homage to them, they will
receive blessings: firstly, the
Bodhi Tree; secondly, the alms bowl; and thirdly, the
relics.
So we know that we climb the
mountain to pay
homage to the Bodhi Tree, a symbol of the
Buddha.
Secondly, we have a wish and
hope that a
stupa will soon appear on the summit of Ba Vang Mountain.
Our practitioners never
perform just one meritorious deed; if we want
wisdom, we
must penetrate Right View. That means
we must know everything. This
is goodness, this is liberation. We must know everything so that we
can think in liberation. That is,
having Right View and Right Thinking. So
we know why we climb the mountain; it's to
do those two things. Then
we begin mindfulness in our
steps, meaning we walk towards
goodness, seeing and controlling our actions,
both body and mind.  Have we
controlled it
yet? Later, we will only be mindful of each
step, each action of our hands, each
action of our feet, and keep our minds focused,
not letting them wander out of
that observation. That is what we call
mindfulness and concentration.
This is a
very long process, climbing from the bottom of the slope to the top of the
mountain. That is, we practice mindfulness for a
very
long time. And among all merits, the
merit of meditation is a great merit, my dear friends.
Because meditation generates wisdom
very quickly, my dear friends. Having Right View,
we only need to add the essence of
meditation, and we will
open our minds very quickly.
Those who practice meditation in this way will have a calm,
clear, and bright mind; a strong,
healthy body; they will not get tired; they will quickly overcome
laziness; and their endurance will be
very strong and resilient. That is the value of
meditation. So, later, my dear friends,
let's absolutely not
talk like last time. The mind will be controlled. I will
see you going ahead. But then...
Everyone, please calm down. I see some people are
still talking here today. The Mindfulness Meditation
Center reminds you not to destroy
your own merits and not to destroy the merits
of others. Do you understand, esteemed fellow practitioners? If
we don't talk,
we are destroying
our own merits and the merits of others.
Remember, climbing the mountain isn't just for
chanting; during the process of climbing,
we are practicing
meditation. These days, the
Mindfulness Meditation Center hopes that this year, as we practice
meditation, we Buddhists will speak less. Speak less, only
say what needs to be said, say
what brings benefit.
Those who don't practice meditation speak
a lot, speak useless words, and speak words that
cause
suffering. Because words that come
from our mouths are like hammers in our
mouths; when we speak, the
karmic consequences strike back at us. Therefore,
controlling our speech is something a Buddhist disciple
must understand. In
practice, if those words bring
benefit to ourselves and
others, we can speak as much as we
want. But if those words don't
bring benefit...  If something benefits only oneself and not
others, don't utter a single word,
because it is extremely harmful to the masses. It is incredibly
harmful. There are words that
can cost hundreds of rebirths
in the three evil realms.
It's not simply that
killing is the only sin; killing leads to
immediate imprisonment in this life and the
next, and rebirth in the three evil realms. But
words are no less harmful.
Many times we
think that only killing is a sin,
but remember, in the five precepts, the
sin is the same. The intention to kill a Buddha or a saint is an immeasurable sin, and will lead to rebirth in the three
evil realms, not to mention anything else, right?
Therefore, when we
practice, we often only pay attention to the
crude external things. "I
don't kill," we think, "I am
very virtuous," and then we become arrogant. "I eat vegetarian," we think, "
I practice very well," but remember, even
a single word of wrong view, a single harsh
word, a single false word,
a single
deceitful word, can
cause harm to the masses.  We have suffered
for many lifetimes. We study the sutra of
Master Ngo Dat Quoc Su, and when we even have a single
thought of self, we see that karmic retribution
comes immediately, not immediately. Therefore, those who practice
meditation
must awaken to this point. Those who practice
meditation must clearly see
what they are doing, and control their
actions, from thoughts to
words. If
those words, dear fellow practitioners, are meant to bring
joy to yourselves and others, to inspire
others, then feel
free to speak from morning till night; it's very
beneficial, isn't it? But if those words
become like knives and axes in
your mouth, then don't utter a single word; don't
say it. It's very dangerous! So, the
first thing to do is to control your
speech. Only by not speaking can you begin to
practice mindfulness. If someone is always talking, always wanting to talk,
how can they avoid mindfulness? Do you
see that? It's impossible for
us to be burdened in our minds because those
who like to talk are always thinking about what to say, they talk about
everything they see, and they speak in a
senseless way. What is meaningless? It means that
we lack the connection (or affinity) within ourselves.
This matter is not something
I'm responsible for; I don't benefit from it.
That's what I call tactless. It's tactless and unreasonable to say something that's not
my business, something
I can't solve or help with. It's
not just those
girls who laugh tactlessly. I
myself am very tactless, aren't I?
I see things happening everywhere, east, west,
north, south, up, and down, things that don't concern
me, things that don't bring me liberation, do
n't bring me benefit,
don't bring benefit to others, and I still talk about them.
Even then, I talk about it there, then I
bring it home, I talk to the neighbors, I talk
to the temple, I talk about it. It doesn't solve
anything for me, it's not related to me at all. Is
n't that tactless, esteemed practitioners of
meditation? Those who practice meditation will eliminate all these
things. What we call bad habits in the world,
in the Dharma, are called ignorance and foolishness. Do you
understand this clearly?
We are practitioners; we must look
directly and truthfully at ourselves.
Any action that is foolish, we must call it
foolish.  When we are afraid of
others calling us stupid, we
never dare to admit that we are stupid.
We must acknowledge
our own stupid actions because those actions bring
us suffering, so we call
them stupid actions, right?
In the mind, we often reflect on ourselves, wondering
why we were so stupid at that moment. We didn't know what we were,
truly stupid, without intelligence, only intelligence and stupidity. Without
intelligence, it's just stupidity, isn't it? It's true that
we were really stupid at that moment, stupid,
right?
So, in the mind, we often say, "
What was I stupid about?" If we haven't gotten it
right yet, then what do we call it? We were so stupid at that moment, we had to get used to it. Therefore, we must prioritize the goal of speaking less, speaking at the
right time, at the right moment, and about the right thing. That's what
we need to strive for.
We must speak at the
right time, at the right moment, and about the right thing.
That's what we need to aim for.  We
must avoid cushions to hone
our skills in this practice. So,
we will take steps like
this: Mindfulness meditation will demonstrate this for you all
once more.
When we walk, we
let go of our hands like this. Remember,
we take three steps, then stop, and
bow once. Then
we continue walking. Those who study meditation
know this already. For example, the right foot
touches, then the left foot touches. That's right,
this is three steps, then the left foot touches, and
we stop. Please understand this clearly:
one step,
two steps, three steps, then
this foot is brought up and stands close to the third step.
Because the mountain path might have rocks,
we must stand like this, but
this step is not a step, only
three steps. Then,
we raise our hands and bow.
We must observe each action
clearly. Here, mindfulness meditation, hands hanging down: right foot
touches is one, left foot touches is two, right foot
touches is three. This isn't four, okay?
This is where the left foot is brought up.
We stand in a balanced position called the
three steps. Where we stand and
how we stand depends on us. Then we raise our hands in a gesture of reverence.
During the process of
walking, if we have distracting thoughts,
we recognize them as distracting thoughts and let them go. We
recognize them as distracting thoughts, let them go, and
then continue walking. The
fewer distracting thoughts we have from the bottom of the slope to the top, the
higher our concentration will be. Therefore, we
don't need to pay attention to the people around us or
what's happening outside. Only then can we
focus on our inner selves. If
we only look outwards and want to talk,
we are not focusing on our
inner selves. Do you understand?
Remember, the Buddha attained enlightenment through inner peace,
not through external circumstances. Therefore,
we must focus on our inner selves
as much as possible. Do you understand this?
If we can always be
mindful like this, it will be truly
wonderful. Everything, not just
spiritual matters, but all worldly matters, will be
successful.  How brilliant it is to teach us! If
we can be mindful in everything we do—
mindfulness in this
work, mindfulness in this, mindfulness in
this, mindfulness in this—
without attachment or anger, that's
very good. But we have to practice a
lot of mindfulness. Han Guan is still
practicing with the community, okay? We haven't reached
the level of complete single-mindedness yet, especially
lay people who still have family matters to attend to. Don't even
think about complete single-mindedness. But
we can cultivate enough
clarity of mind for a lay person, that's already
very good. That's why we can enter the first stage of
enlightenment and practice mindfulness. Do you understand?
But we must practice the precepts correctly,
follow the six fires, and practice mindfulness.
Do you understand? Of course, it's very rare because
with much attachment, it's difficult to practice, but with
the mind of Han Guan, I hope that in the
coming year,
our club will focus more on meditation practice,
listen to Dharma teachings, and deeply understand Buddhism to gain Right View.
Then, living mindfully,
we will be able to
resolve our afflictions more easily. Okay?
When walking, don't talk unless someone
next to you has an accident or something happens, then
we should help them, understood everyone? Otherwise,
if there's no accident or anything happens,
we'll be considered rude. Anyone
who talks becomes
rude. You won't be able to practice virtue that way.
[music]
h
C [music]
[music]